---
tags:
  - bible
  - study
title: Acts 26
date: 2025-04-23
---
## Highlight 
25 But Paul said, “I am not out of my mind, most excellent Festus, but I am speaking true and rational words.
[The Holy Bible: English Standard Version](https://ref.ly/res/LLS:1.0.710/2019-04-30T20:46:24Z/4954627?len=115) (Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles, 2016), Ac 26:25.

## Explain
 Paul was giving his defense before King Agrippa and Festus. When he had finished Festus stated that Paul was out of his mind.
 
 19 For the wisdom of this world is folly with God. For it is written, “He catches the wise in their craftiness,” 20 and again, “The Lord knows the thoughts of the wise, that they are futile.”
[The Holy Bible: English Standard Version](https://ref.ly/res/LLS:1.0.710/2019-04-30T20:46:24Z/5028501?len=195) (Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles, 2016), 1 Co 3:19–20.

18 For the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God. 19 For it is written, “I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the discernment of the discerning I will thwart.” 20 Where is the one who is wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? 21 For since, in the wisdom of God, the world did not know God through wisdom, it pleased God through the folly of what we preach to save those who believe. 22 For Jews demand signs and Greeks seek wisdom, 23 but we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews and folly to Gentiles, 24 but to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God. 25 For the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men.
[The Holy Bible: English Standard Version](https://ref.ly/res/LLS:1.0.710/2019-04-30T20:46:24Z/5022842?len=892) (Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles, 2016), 1 Co 1:18–25.

The #wisdom of the world is folly to God. Paul, after his conversion, understood that Jesus was the promised Messiah that the Jews had been looking for. Only until the Spirit revealed that to him did he understand.
## Act
Be bold to share the gospel: "I would to God that not only you but also all who hear me this day might become such as I am
[The Holy Bible: English Standard Version](https://ref.ly/res/LLS:1.0.710/2019-04-30T20:46:24Z/4955129?len=95) (Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles, 2016), Ac 26:29."

Don't let "yourself" get in the way of sharing. The Holy Spirit does the work, we are called to proclaim: "18 And Jesus came and said to them, “All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. 19 Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, 20 teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age.”
[The Holy Bible: English Standard Version](https://ref.ly/res/LLS:1.0.710/2019-04-30T20:46:24Z/4505699?len=369) (Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles, 2016), Mt 28:18–20."

## Respond
Be watchful to who I can share the gospel with today. Pray that my eyes and heart will be open to the leading of the Holy Spirit.